 
 
 
Melinda Moore, Claims Representative 
Intact Insurance  
1400 St. Laurent Blvd. Ste #300 
Ottawa, ON K1K 4H4 
 
PHYSICIAN PAPER REVIEW REPORT 
REVIEW OF TREATMENT AND ASSESSMENT PLAN (OCF-18) 
 
CLAIMANT:    Doe, Jane    
CLAIM NO.:    12345678
DATE OF LOSS:    December 6, 2017 
DATE OF BIRTH    January 1, 1990
HVE FILE NO:    18-00066109 
DOCUMENT IN DISPUTE:    Treatment and Assessment Plan (OCF-18) 
dated January 26, 2018 submitted by Kim 
Janice for the amount of $1896.25 
DATE REPORT PREPARED:    February 28, 2018 
DATE REPORT FINALIZED:    March 1, 2018 
ASSESSOR:    Dr. Sangita Sharma, 
  Physician 
 
 
ASSESSOR QUALIFICATIONS 
 
I am a duly qualified physician licensed to practice in Ontario, Canada.  I have been in active 
practice since 2005. I obtained both a Bachelor of Science and Doctor of Medicine degrees 
from the University of Saskatchewan. I then completed 2-years of residency training in 
internal medicine followed by a postgraduate specialty program in emergency medicine. I 
continue to be affiliated with McMaster University as an Assistant Clinical Professor teaching 
medical students, residents, and primary care physicians. I am an assessor with the College 
of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario (CPSO), Peer Review Program. I have completed 
additional formal training in chronic pain medicine. I currently see over 100 chronic pain 
patients per week. I am also employed as a part-time emergency physician with privileges at 
St Joseph’s Hospital, Hamilton Health Sciences and Joseph Brant Hospital. I am the medical 
director of Nina’s Place, the Regional Sexual Assault/ Domestic Violence Care Centre for 
Halton (this encompasses Burlington, Milton, Oakville and Georgetown); here I oversee the 
efforts of a multidisciplinary team in the forensic evaluations and treatments of sexually 
abused and domestic violence clients. The Canadian Academy of Pain Management has 
granted me Diplomate status with Advanced Credentialing in Interventional Chronic Pain 
Medicine. I have also completed formal training in the delivery of therapeutic Botox therapy. 
I  am  certified  by  the  American  Board  of  Independent  Medical  Examiners  to  conduct 
Independent Medical Evaluations for the Insurance Industry and to perform both defence and 
plaintiff Chronic Pain Medical Legal Examinations. I am a member of the Canadian Society 
of Medical Evaluators as well as the Hamilton Medical Legal Society. I am a coroner for the 
Province of Ontario and conduct death investigations. 
 <PAGE_SEPARATOR>Page 2 of 6 
Re:  Doe, Jane   
PURPOSE OF PAPER REVIEW 
 
Ms Doe was seen on February 15, 2018 for the purpose of a Physician Assessment 
within  the  parameters  of  an  Independent  Medical  Examination.  The  results  of  that 
assessment are documented in the Physician Assessment Report dated February 15, 2018 
by me. At this time, I have been asked to complete a paper review on Ms Doe to 
comment on her entitlement to the Medical and Rehabilitation Benefit and applicability of the 
Minor Injury Guideline.  
 
The issue in dispute is to determine whether the Treatment and Assessment Plan (OCF-18) 
dated  January  26,  2018  completed  by  Ms.  Janice  Kim,  Occupational  Therapist  of 
Scarborough Physio & Rehab Clinic is reasonable and necessary and required as a direct 
result of the injuries sustained in the motor vehicle accident. The Treatment and Assessment 
Plan (OCF-18) requests the following goods and services for a total cost of $1896.25: 
 
  Description  Cost ($)  Total Count  Total Cost ($) 
1  Documentation, support activity  200.00  1  200.00 
2  Assessment (examination), total  99.75  12  1197.00 
body 
3  Provider travel time, provider to  99.75  1  99.75 
treatment 
4  Provider mileage to treatment  60.00  1  60.00 
5  Planning, service  99.75  2  199.50 
6  Documentation, support activity  70.00  2  140.00 
 
DOCUMENT LIST 
 
The following documents are available for review: 
 
Document Date 
Document Name  Author/Title 
(Month, DD, YYYY) 
Janice Kim/Occupational 
OCF-18 (under review)  January 26, 2018 
Therapist 
OCF-18  January 2, 2018  Malik Hundani/Physiotherapist 
OCF-23  January 8, 2018  Malik Hundani/Physiotherapist 
OCF-3  January 2, 2018  Malik Hundani/Physiotherapist 
OCF-1  December 1, 2017  Doe Argiropulos/Claimant 
 
 
 <PAGE_SEPARATOR>Page 3 of 6 
Re:  Doe, Jane   
 
DETERMINATION  
 
The Treatment and Assessment Plan (OCF-18) dated January 26, 2018 completed by Ms. 
Janice Kim, Occupational Therapist of Scarborough Physio & Rehab Clinic, for a total of 
$1896.23 is not reasonable and necessary.  
 
FILE REVIEW 
 
Ms Doe reported during my in-person assessment on February 15, 2018 that they 
were involved in a rear impact-type collision on December 6, 2017 (2 months at the time of 
this Physician Paper Review Report). The claimant reported immediate headaches and pain 
in her cervical spine with radiation down her right arm. There was loss of consciousness for 
an unknown duration.  The claimant was assessed in a local emergency room and no 
emergency care was necessary.  
 
1.  At the time of my in-person assessment, Ms Doe had undergone two months 
of  physical  rehabilitative  treatment.  The  claimant  indicated  that  they  were  5% 
improved with respect to accident related injuries. During my in-person assessment, 
she complained of headaches, pain in her cervical spine with radiation down her right 
arm, and pain in her thoracic spine and lumbosacral spine.  
 
During the physical examination on February 15, 2018, there was reduced range of motion 
in the cervical spine and full range of motion in the lumbosacral spine. The upper and lower 
extremities were examined and normal. There was no evidence of crepitation or instability in 
any of the extremity joints. The neurological examination was normal.  
 
Based upon a review of the documentation, and interview and assessment from February 15, 
2018,  I  concluded  that  Ms.  Doe  sustained  the  following  soft  tissue  injuries: 
Cervicogenic headaches; Cervical myofascial strain (WAD II); Thoracic myofascial strain; and 
Nonspecific low back strain. Additionally, I opined that that I was unable to determine whether 
Ms Doe had developed chronic pain syndrome as not enough time has elapsed 
since the index accident.  
 
REFERRAL QUESTIONS 
 
Minor Injury Guideline: 
 
2.  Has the claimant sustained a ‘minor injury’ as defined in the SABS? 
 
According to the Statutory Accident Benefits Schedule (SABS), a minor injury is defined 
as  one  or  more  of  a  sprain,  strain,  whiplash  associated  disorder,  contusion, 
abrasion,laceration, or subluxation and includes any clinically associated sequelae to 
such an injury.  
From strictly a musculoskeletal perspective, the claimant has sustained a minor injury as 
defined in the SABS.  
 
Ms.  Doe  reported  a  pre-existing  history  of  ovarian  cancer,  which  was 
diagnosed in 2009. The claimant underwent two surgeries as a result of this condition <PAGE_SEPARATOR>Page 4 of 6 
Re:  Doe, Jane   
and is currently in complete remission.    
Ms Doe previously underwent the following surgeries: two procedures to treat her 
ovarian cancer in 2009; removal of kidney stones “more than ten years ago”; and cesarean 
sections in 1981, 1984, and 1990.  
 
Ms Doe was involved in a previous motor vehicle accident in 2016. The claimant 
did not sustain any injuries from her previous accident.  
 
However, it is my opinion that no concurrent or pre-accident conditions exist that have 
contributed to the current clinical presentation nor are there any concurrent or pre-accident 
conditions that will hinder recovery. Accordingly, the Minor Injury Guideline applies to this 
case.  
 
Medical and Rehabilitation Benefit: 
 
1.  Are  the  proposed  goods  and  services  listed  in  Part  12  of the  Treatment  and 
Assessment Plan considered: 
 
•  Reasonable and necessary? 
•  Partially reasonable and necessary? 
•  Not reasonable and necessary? 
 
Please state specifically one of the above and give your specific reason for your 
opinion.  
 
  Description  Cost ($)  Total Count  Total Cost ($) 
1  Documentation, support activity  200.00  1  200.00 
2  Assessment (examination), total  99.75  12  1197.00 
body 
3  Provider travel time, provider to  99.75  1  99.75 
treatment 
4  Provider mileage to treatment  60.00  1  60.00 
5  Planning, service  99.75  2  199.50 
6  Documentation, support activity  70.00  2  140.00 
 
 
The proposed goods and services listed in Part 12 of the Treatment and Assessment Plan 
dated January 26, 2018 are not considered reasonable and necessary to address any 
physical injury. The claimant has sustained predominantly soft tissue injuries and extensive 
passive therapy has already been utilized. The claimant does not have a pre-existing injury 
or condition that will hinder their healing.  
 <PAGE_SEPARATOR>Page 5 of 6 
Re:  Doe, Jane   
The claimant is encouraged to continue with her return to physical activity and incorporate 
some core strengthening and a cardiovascular program.  
2.  If the goods and services listed in Part 12 are other goods and services of a 
medical nature, are the goods and services proposed reasonable and necessary 
and essential for the treatment of the insured person? 
 
Not applicable, as the Treatment and Assessment Plan (OCF-18) is not considered 
reasonable and necessary.  
 
3.  What are the customary healing times for the diagnosis taking into account the 
insured person’s personal characteristics? 
 
The customary healing times for soft tissue injuries is 12-16 weeks and the collagen 
re-modelling phase can take up to twelve months. Functional recovery typically occurs 
at 20 weeks. At times, pain can continue past the 1-year mark. I believe that with 
initiation of a self-directed active physical fitness program, the claimant is likely to see 
positive benefits.  
 
4.  If all or part of the proposed Treatment and Assessment Plan is considered 
reasonable and necessary, are the costs of the proposed goods and services 
within the Professional Services Fee Guideline? 
 
Not applicable, as the proposed Treatment and Assessment Plan (OCF-18) is not 
considered reasonable and necessary.  
 
5.  If  no,  what  should  be  the  costs  of  the  proposed  goods  and  services  (in 
accordance with FSCO Guidelines)? 
 
Not applicable, as the proposed Treatment and Assessment Plan (OCF-18) is not 
considered reasonable and necessary.  
 
6.  In your opinion, what further medical treatment or rehabilitation services are 
necessary to assist the insured person in recovering from the impairment(s) 
sustained as a result of the motor vehicle accident? 
 
No  further  medical  treatment  or  rehabilitation  services  are  indicated  for  the 
management of the soft tissue injuries sustained during the accident.  
 
7.  If further medical or rehabilitation services are required – please specifically 
state: 
•  Focus of the recommended intervention.  
•  Type of treatment modality.  
•  Frequency.  
•  Duration.  
•  Cost of treatment and any equipment required.  
 
Not applicable as no further medical or rehabilitation services are required.  
 <PAGE_SEPARATOR>Page 6 of 6 
Re:  Doe, Jane   
8.  Is any other physical modality of treatment required? 
 
No other physical modality of treatment is required at this juncture.  
 
9.  As a result of the impairment sustained in the motor vehicle accident are there 
any goods which are deemed reasonable and necessary? 
 
No  further  goods  are  deemed  reasonable  and  necessary  with  respect  to  the 
management of her soft tissue injuries.  
 
10. As a result of the impairment sustained in the motor vehicle accident are the 
drugs prescribed, if any, reasonable and necessary? 
 
Based on the history obtained, at the time of my in-person assessment on February 
15, 2018, the claimant was administering Tylenol (unknown dose) once daily for pain. 
This is considered reasonable and necessary.  
 
11. If  all  or  part  of  the  proposed  assessment(s)  and/or  examination(s)  is/are 
considered  reasonable  and  necessary,  are  the  costs  of  the  assessment(s) 
and/or examination(s) within the Professional Fee Guideline? 
 
Not applicable, as the proposed Treatment and Assessment Plan (OCF-18) is not 
considered reasonable and necessary.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The opinion provided in this report is that of the assessor and has been based on the 
documents provided for review, the history as reported by the claimant and the results of the 
present examination. The assessor’s opinion is independent of the referral source. The 
assessor reserves the right to change or modify the opinion provided in this report should 
additional information become available at a later date, in the form of an addendum.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Dr. Sangita Sharma   
BSc, MD, FRCPC (Emergency Medicine) 
Physician 
HVE Healthcare Assessments 