1.  Are  the  proposed  goods  and  services  listed  in  Part  12  of the  Treatment  and 
Assessment Plan considered: 
 
•  Reasonable and necessary? 
•  Partially reasonable and necessary? 
•  Not reasonable and necessary? 
 
Please state specifically one of the above and give your specific reason for your 
opinion.  
 
  Description  Cost ($)  Total Count  Total Cost ($) 
1  Documentation, support activity  200.00  1  200.00 
2  Assessment (examination), total  99.75  12  1197.00 
body 
3  Provider travel time, provider to  99.75  1  99.75 
treatment 
4  Provider mileage to treatment  60.00  1  60.00 
5  Planning, service  99.75  2  199.50 
6  Documentation, support activity  70.00  2  140.00 
 
 
The proposed goods and services listed in Part 12 of the Treatment and Assessment Plan 
dated January 26, 2018 are not considered reasonable and necessary to address any 
physical injury. The claimant has sustained predominantly soft tissue injuries and extensive 
passive therapy has already been utilized. The claimant does not have a pre-existing injury 
or condition that will hinder their healing.  
 <PAGE_SEPARATOR>Page 5 of 6 
Re:  Doe, Jane   
The claimant is encouraged to continue with her return to physical activity and incorporate 
some core strengthening and a cardiovascular program.  
2.  If the goods and services listed in Part 12 are other goods and services of a 
medical nature, are the goods and services proposed reasonable and necessary 
and essential for the treatment of the insured person? 
 
Not applicable, as the Treatment and Assessment Plan (OCF-18) is not considered 
reasonable and necessary.  
 
3.  What are the customary healing times for the diagnosis taking into account the 
insured person’s personal characteristics? 
 
The customary healing times for soft tissue injuries is 12-16 weeks and the collagen 
re-modelling phase can take up to twelve months. Functional recovery typically occurs 
at 20 weeks. At times, pain can continue past the 1-year mark. I believe that with 
initiation of a self-directed active physical fitness program, the claimant is likely to see 
positive benefits.  
 
4.  If all or part of the proposed Treatment and Assessment Plan is considered 
reasonable and necessary, are the costs of the proposed goods and services 
within the Professional Services Fee Guideline? 
 
Not applicable, as the proposed Treatment and Assessment Plan (OCF-18) is not 
considered reasonable and necessary.  
 
5.  If  no,  what  should  be  the  costs  of  the  proposed  goods  and  services  (in 
accordance with FSCO Guidelines)? 
 
Not applicable, as the proposed Treatment and Assessment Plan (OCF-18) is not 
considered reasonable and necessary.  
 
6.  In your opinion, what further medical treatment or rehabilitation services are 
necessary to assist the insured person in recovering from the impairment(s) 
sustained as a result of the motor vehicle accident? 
 
No  further  medical  treatment  or  rehabilitation  services  are  indicated  for  the 
management of the soft tissue injuries sustained during the accident.  
 
7.  If further medical or rehabilitation services are required – please specifically 
state: 
•  Focus of the recommended intervention.  
•  Type of treatment modality.  
•  Frequency.  
•  Duration.  
•  Cost of treatment and any equipment required.  
 
Not applicable as no further medical or rehabilitation services are required.  
 <PAGE_SEPARATOR>Page 6 of 6 
Re:  Doe, Jane   
8.  Is any other physical modality of treatment required? 
 
No other physical modality of treatment is required at this juncture.  
 
9.  As a result of the impairment sustained in the motor vehicle accident are there 
any goods which are deemed reasonable and necessary? 
 
No  further  goods  are  deemed  reasonable  and  necessary  with  respect  to  the 
management of her soft tissue injuries.  
 
10. As a result of the impairment sustained in the motor vehicle accident are the 
drugs prescribed, if any, reasonable and necessary? 
 
Based on the history obtained, at the time of my in-person assessment on February 
15, 2018, the claimant was administering Tylenol (unknown dose) once daily for pain. 
This is considered reasonable and necessary.  
 
11. If  all  or  part  of  the  proposed  assessment(s)  and/or  examination(s)  is/are 
considered  reasonable  and  necessary,  are  the  costs  of  the  assessment(s) 
and/or examination(s) within the Professional Fee Guideline? 
 
Not applicable, as the proposed Treatment and Assessment Plan (OCF-18) is not 
considered reasonable and necessary.